---

title: Neovim Experience 
description: Why I switched to neovim as my text editor. From VSCode. 
head:
  meta:
    - name: 'keywords'
      content: 'Neovim, programming, VSCodeNeovim, Vim, Visual Studio Code, VScode, vi, text editor, programming, coding, rust, python, go' 
    - name: 'author'
      content: 'Platon @Xnpltn'
    - name: 'copyright'
      content: '© Platon Xnpltn 2024'

---
# My Journey to Neovim

I know, I know. You might be thinking I just wanted to look like a programming wizard, or be able to say "Neovim BTW" lol. 
You are so wrong.

## My experience with Visual Studio Code

When I was starting, at 15 years old, I began with Sublime Text. I liked it. As someone learning HTML and JavaScript, the autocompletion and color highlighting both felt like magic.

It wasn't really something I was into. I was just a nerd trying to figure out how websites are built, hoping to build my own Facebook and get rich. Obviously, I failed myself. Well, not my fault, I had no basement where I could concentrate :/

After some time, I realized I wasn't creating good UI or cool animations. In summary, I couldn't be good at CSS. I searched over the internet for "Work for programmers who are not very good at styling", exactly like that. 

Fortunately, I found you don't need CSS to deal with the server side of applications. That's when I started with Python. Yes, I learned `JavaScript` before `Python`. In the first tutorial I watched, the tutor was using VSCode, and I felt like maybe it's a prerequisite. So the journey began.

It was a good experience in my opinion. It was kinda slow, but I didn't care about that as long as my programs were running and giving me the results I hoped for. After some time, I realized I was spending more time in the terminal. 

## vi 

I talked about it to someone and they recommended vi, which I wasn't liking. As a Windows user at the time, I had to install extra tools to get it. The worst part, it looked horrible. No color highlighting, no code completion, bruh? I didn't even use it for a day. 

## Neovim, BTW 

Time came when my old laptop started making that sound of an airplane taking off. VSCode was using lots of memory, getting my laptop hotter, and I realized maybe I needed an alternative.

Here is where Neovim came in. After searching online, I came across this tool. I installed it with NvChad config and oh goodness, I loved it. I started using it, memory usage wasn't anywhere near VSCode, my machine wasn't roaring anymore... a lot to say.

I realized it's the right tool for the job.

I struggled with key bindings, my typing speed not as fast, but I liked it anyway. It felt cool to use a terminal, to be honest. 

## My Conclusion

Using Vim/Neovim is sometimes considered as a flex. But for me, it's not. Also, the configuration is not very easy. But depending on what I do, the terminal I like, I feel like it's best for me.

> Use the right tool for the job <br/>
    -literally nobody

If you spend too much time in the terminal, I recommend the same tool. You will get most of the features from modern IDEs in your terminal, it's highly customizable, etc.

#### Some Links
- <a href="https://github.com/xnpltn/dotfles" target="_blank">Neovim Configs</a>
- <a href="https://github.com/neovim/neovim/blob/master/INSTALL.md" target="_blank">Nvim Installation</a>
- <a href="https://nvchad.com/docs/quickstart/install" target="_blank">NvChad</a>


Thanks for readin :).



