# Hello ASGI

I believe if you landed here, you probably know  about asgi
or at least about FastAPI.
This writing is about ASGI foundamentals. I will implement 
a simple small asgi server like uvicorn from scratch with 
no external dependencies.

## ASGI Foundamentals

What is ASGI? You may ask.
ASGI , Asynchronous Server Gateway Interface, [ASGI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Asynchronous_Server_Gateway_Interface) is a protocol intended to provide a standard interface 
between async-capable Python web servers, frameworks, and applications.
It is a successor to [WSGI](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Web_Server_Gateway_Interface). 

Where WSGI provided a standard for synchronous Python apps, 
ASGI provides one for both asynchronous and synchronous apps, 
with a WSGI backwards-compatibility implementation and multiple servers 
and application frameworks

ASGI can be a single 'Asynchronous' function that expects three parameters.
1. The `scope` which is a python dictionary with details about the connection.
2. Am asynchronous function (An Awaitable)  `recieve` which acts as a reciever for the application,
it expects a dictionary as arguements
3. An asynchronous function `send` which acts as a sender for the application. it expectsa dictionary as arguements.

```
from typing import Dict, Awaitable

async def app(scope: Dict, recieve: Awaitable, send: Awaitable):
    pass
```

The arguements expected by either `recieve` or `scope` are python dictionaries with a 
pre-defined format. Those arguements are refered to `Event`s in the specification.


### ASGI Event 


